The night hell fell from the sky.
The herbicide is derived from a natural antibiotic, which is produced by two strains of a soil bacterium.
Seller shall add taxes as a separate line item on the seller's invoice, if applicable.
The funds collected from this endeavour will now be shared by victims of Hurricane Katrina, and earthquake victims in Pakistan.
The art in the book is from the city of Tulsa's public collection, as well as other collections.
The basement carpeting is made from recycled plastic pop bottles, and the underpad was once automobile tires.
The big savings are coming from the hardware side.
Picking up the pace from last year, this summer ends with the second Transfan gathering this year in Israel.
When they took the floor against a team favored to win the national championship, the patriots radiated carefree confidence.
The more samples (and therefore means) from the population one takes, the better the population estimate is from the sampling distribution.
I have lost a library book, what should I do?
It amounts to $1.00/gal off the company's excise tax liability if the biodiesel is made from virgin oils or $0.50/gal off if made from recycled oils.
The only change is from the energy company's end, where their section of the gas or electricity infrastructure is now supplying an extra home.
Heating oil is a refined oil made from petroleum, used in furnaces to heat buildings.
The taste is from the ginseng, not alcohol.
Canola seed are small, and placement at a shallow depth is required.
The chart above is from the Productivity Commission's Overcoming Aboriginal Disadvantage 2005 Report and outlines the strategic areas which require action.
Remove the old sponge from a sponge brush.
Their success comes from their ability to quickly answer a growing surge of mid-size customer demands - demands that *always* focus around ease of implementation and ease of administration/use.
She was said to look like Lauren Bacall in those days and dated a few of the engineers from the refinery.
Once it was the middle of winter, and the snowflakes fell from the sky like feathers.
The leaves are from a vine maple.
The movie gives the inaccurate impression that the Apaches all surrendered.
The scintillator material produces visible light when transversed by the particle's radiated energy.
The spammer writes a simple bot that goes to your site and hits the registration page.
Because winter has been mild in much of the country, oil prices have been low for the past few months.
The mustard is made from brown or black mustard seed and has a smooth, not-too-acidic flavor.
Please type the code from the image above.
The sisters are teenage refugees from a violent home, living alone in a faded Victorian mansion where they survive by creating a closed world centered around each other and their new friends-a rowdy makeshift family of castoffs, dealers, and drama queens on the periphery of the burgeoning drug game, some looking for a way out, some looking for a way deeper in.
Federal officials deny the torture allegations, but the judge ordered a competency exam and expects results next month.
The data is received from a sensor in the shoe, with audible feedback provided through the earphones.
All the zones are centrally administered from a special, protected global zone which manages the Trusted Computing Base (TCB) known as the Trusted Path.
This survey is an attempt to understand what people define as moderation and their perceptions about the health benefits of alcoholic beverages.
Crude soybean oil meeting exchange-approved grades and standards-see exchange Rules and Regulations for exact specifications.
A man from the first house seemed upset about the debris that landed on his roof.
My problem is that the advertisement gives the impression that women in rural Bangladesh have 6 children.
The carpet is made from recycled materials.
The shells are from a tiny mollusk, Nassarius kraussianus, that lived in a nearby estuary.
Yet 14 members in the Lebanese parliament are from the Hezbollah party.
The fact is that unless the product or package contains 100 percent recycled materials, the label must tell you how much is recycled.
Afterwards, stroll to a bar for a glass of 'medronho' - the national liquor made from a fleshy, red fruit grown in Portugal.
Margarine is imitation butter without the superior flavor and pleasant mouthfeel.
Heating oil is similar to diesel oil, and the process of refining it is very similar.
The streaks are from a passing truck.
This is an overview of the viewer from a developer's perspective.
The rings are preferably made from a copolymer polypropylene.
Pomegranate juice is known to have anti-inflammatory effects and high levels of anti-oxidants, which are believed to protect the body from free-radical damage.
Ride Metrorail and then pick up a car-just steps from the train-to run errands, shop or reach any other business or social event not easily accessible via transit.
If you are lucky enough, while your travel to Russia you can manage to buy vodka in a plastic bag.
Most public vanpool programs require that the commute trip has an origination or destination in the county providing the vanpool service.
The concrete sidewalk radiated heat like a furnace, and there was no relief in the shade of a large crepe myrtle tree as they walked under it.
The vaccine is made from inactivated virus, so it's impossible to get the flu from the vaccine.
Others think that the underwater ruins are from a different ancient monument, perhaps a temple that gradually sank beneath the waves.
The dollar fell from six-week peaks against major European currencies.
If either of these errors continues to occur, check for updated drivers for the decoder from the decoder manufacturer.
The voltage swing obtainable across the load is greater than the output voltage swing obtainable from the amplifier alone, thus the efficiency of the amplifier system and power handling capacity of the system are improved.
It supports the personal information and interaction environment thus liberating the person from tedious chores and enriching their life and interaction with others in social or business contexts - it 'enlarges the personal contribution'.
Hamburgers from the restaurant were recalled, preventing further illness.
He put on a gold pointed hat and read out jokes from the crackers.
Notice how much larger the text now is from the original size.
Now you can get the latest information directly from the experts.
The scintillator material produces visible light when transversed by the particle's radiated energy.
Will non-UK students benefit from the bursary scheme?
The intro music is from the song "Pisces Fish" from the album "Brainwashed" by George Harrison.
The country gentleman, lodging at the Hotel de Mayence, Rue Saint-Honore, near the Place Vendome, one morning received a visit from a confidential agent of the Ministry, who was an expert in 'winding up' business.
The sun emits light or radiation at a large range of energies or frequencies.
The following excerpt is from the self help psychology book, Be Your Own Therapist.
I heard that those refugees escaped from a civil war before.
It was originally assumed that the ingredients responsible for drug interactions were the flavonoids that give grapefruit juice its bitter taste.
Interspersed in the design are patterns derived from a variety of textiles.
Muscles, tendons, and ligaments surround the ankle providing the stability the ankle joint needs for walking and running.
If you're an immigrant or refugee from any country then you might have had an experience with a botched translated name.
The verses are from a pretty, sad ballad.
A cinquain is a special poem that is written with five lines.
The person fell from the tree.
I think the greater danger is from the unelected justices than from the elected congress and the elected president.
The developer duly writes a test case, makes the necessary code changes, ensures the test passes, checks the code in and considers the job finished!
Line 10 requires providing the full legal name of the service provider providing the connection.
The best vodka is distilled from rye and barley malt, but the cheaper corn and potatoes are commonly employed.
Part of you dies each year when the leaves fell from the trees.
The call is from the American philanthropist who pulled together the exhibit for the Ambassador.
You have been appointed as a reviewer for a thesis towards a Technical Licentiate degree at the Department of Materials Science and Engineering.
If the declarator is for an instance variable (that is, a field that is not static), then the variable initializer is evaluated.
They could get the addresses for the Web sites of the items, for another look.
The election for the board of trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation has closed.
The empathy quotient is intended to measure how easily you pick up on other people's feelings and also how strongly you are affected by other people's feelings.
We are on the lookout for a free or cheap English bulldog.
A bath towel is used for drying one's body after bathing or showering.
An important aspect of preparing your paper for publication by ACM Press is to provide the proper indexing and retrieval information from the ACM Computing Classification System.
The section below illustrates the period of ineligibility for Federal Student Aid funds, depending on whether the conviction was for sale or possession.
The objective of this action is to support research infrastructures.
The standard university assessment scale is used for all assessments.
The warrant was for simple assault.
An essential aim of computing professionals is to minimize negative consequences.
The aim was for completion so that they would be available to study the Sun during the peak of the solar cycle, which was expected in the year 2000.
The SalesVantage directory is for advertising, marketing & sales management services in your area.
This can be a model for the health care industry nationwide.
Esther, a programmer for a new social networking site based on FOAF, has written an RDF crawler.
As of Flash8, the Flash video encoder is also standalone.
His admonition was to never question the motive of an intellectual.
First, a general introduction sets the context for the project.
If the window is not repaired quickly, the tendency is for vandals to break a few more windows, over time.
Under the Convention, it is also bribery whether money or some other type of advantage is offered, promised or given; whether the bribe was for the benefit of the foreign official or a third party.
BIO already has a foundation upon which to build an infrastructure for the biological sciences.
The termination was for reasons beyond his control.
He presented a framework for measuring the social impact of Canadian documentaries.
Huffman coding is a method for the construction of minimum-redundancy codes.
We consider muon-spin rotation as a tool for investigating the diffusion of positive muons in type-II superconductors.
Eliminating those clouds is critical to the prospects for the machine's success.
He needs a recipe for a milkshake.
The software is used for managing websites.
Of course, KATU also failed to mention that the petition was for artists and writers and ignored the presence of Ursula K. Le Guin entirely.
The only charge to the subscriber is for programming selections.
Note that the user interface is quite different at LANL and NCSTRL.
These are the requirements for obtaining a deferral or exception to performance or repayment under an agreement.
These recommendations will serve as the basis for a process of engagement with other countries.
He had a proposal for solving the caller ID problem.
Rwandatel had no customer-service department and 12 employees whose sole job was to play on the company soccer team.
He talked about a method for the transmission of IPv6 packets over ethernet networks.
The process for submitting a feature request is very similar to bug requests.
Unfortunately, signing statements has become a substitute for a presidential veto.
Ace is no longer the place for the lowest prices or the biggest assortment of home improvement goods; the big boxes have it beaten in those categories.
Our mission is to provide our site visitors with as much information as possible about animals that people keep as pets.
Josh Earnest is a spokesman for the committee.
The mission of the ACLU is to preserve all of these protections and guarantees.
The application deadline for the 2007 AARP Best Employers for Workers over 50 program is fast approaching.
We are a nonprofit association whose mission is to advance higher education by promoting the intelligent use of information technology.
The website is a good resource for the classroom.
The technical reference manual represents the guidelines for the preparation of hazardous waste management plans.
The prosecution was for defrauding the government under procurement contracts.
The balance of the expenditures was for machinery, equipment, furniture and informatics equipment costing less than $500 thousand each.
The data contained herein is for informational purposes only and is not represented to be error free.
TERENA has a vacancy for a public relations officer.
The original intention was to create a third institution to handle the trade.
My ambition was to liquidate communism, the dictatorship over all the people.
Kwispel is the Dutch word for wagging a tail.
It features styled unordered lists for the navigation, styled skip links, min and max width, and has a placeholder for a photo gallery. 
The role of middleware is to make application development easier.
You can take the credit for the elderly or the disabled if you meet both of the following requirements.
This form is used for a department billing for goods or services it has provided.
This is the agenda for a postwar planning meeting on Japan and China.
A bill is a proposal for a law. 
The request was for a full copy of a report into the performance of the child protection agencies following the death of a child from neglect.
It provides a framework for improving the use of biomonitoring data including developing and using biomarkers.
The playbook was for insiders, but it got in the hands of some outsiders.
My dream was to be a martyr.
This mail list is used for all people interested in the development of ERP5.
The requirement was for transportation services, so the contracting officer used the clause with its Alternate IV.
The team is working to harness the reaction to develop a nanoswitch for a variety of applications.
Also in the second quarter, the company took a $75000 write-down for a non-recoverable advance it made to an unnamed recording artist.
Then they would check out the maps for the trip itself.
Bill Van Ness's instinct was to fight the plan to build a school next to his factory.
Pretty much every "classic five pocket design" boasted a coin pocket in the front right scoop pocket.
The Women's Chorus of Dallas is one of the nation's finest women's choruses.
Everything is possible and my life is enriched with joy.
Wide and luminous one-roomed flat gained in an ancient house in stone in typical Tuscan style, ideal for braces or small families.
Schools collected about US$5 million to build a sustainable textbook fund by charging a rental fee to parents equivalent to 1/7 of the book's price.
Today, the coast guard discovered a boat full of migrants.
You know the year of emigration from Norway, but not what ship.
I've heard the stock market is making a recovery but isn't it a bit early to put my money.
Several recent media reports have included speculations about the significance of mutations in H5N1 avian influenza viruses.
All Uplanders have a two-tone color scheme with faux metal accents that dramatically brightens the cabin's atmosphere.
According to the Top 100 Journals Reporting Macromolecular Structures, it ranks sixth in published quantity of entries in the Protein Data Bank.
However, in the car's handbook, it is stated that the side airbags would only deploy when the car receives a side hit," Wu said.
Larger species never present in major amount become less abundant.
The database contains annotated references to non-journal material and to journal articles.
Our villa was extremely clean, the only flaw being some stains on one side of the sofa cushions.
Each entry is enriched with synonyms, explanations, and etymological information.
And I spent Thanksgiving in a church packed to the limit, with many of the congregation having to stand.
Arizona police found 214 pounds of marijuana in trunk of 62-year-old woman.
The Clean Water Act requires that the surface waters of each state be classified according to designated uses.
Experimental vaccine blocks transmission of malaria in mice study.
Iraqi forces kill hundreds of gunmen in Najaf.
Blinds all closed for privacy, his black army boots scuffing the dirt coated linoleum floor.
The sliding doors provide 360 degree visibility for the room's occupants.
The mountain gorillas are the rarest of all and are on the verge of extinction.
Then he planted his apple seeds in neat rows and built a brush fence around the area.
Official site with information for prospective and current students includes details of courses, events, and research.
A supper of chocolate bars and soup followed and at 6pm we resigned ourselves to another night of headaches and zero sleep.
The two special folds of the dura in the brain are called the falx and the tentorium.
This page is a directory of libraries in Italy.
The submission deadline is February, 2, 2007.
This course will provide you with a broad and useful understanding of surfaces and components.
The goal of accreditation is to ensure that education provided by institutions of higher education.
Our Belle de Provence soaps are 100% pure vegetable soaps enriched with shea butter and sweet almond oil.
Beta-carotene is found in carrots, yellow vegetables and dark green vegetables and is converted to vitamin A in the body.
Honors & Awards Faculty awards and national rankings of programs included Nobel Prize winners.
But the role of pheromones in the human realm remains controversial.
At a public generalist university fields of study offered include mathematics, sciences, humanities, medicine, law, and Christian theology.
This includes details of facilities, research, staff, and conferences.
Pasta is fortified with folic acid (the synthetic form of naturally occurring folate), due to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations that require enriched grain products to contain this essential vitamin.
Even if we are entirely despised in the eyes of men, let us rejoice that we are honoured in the sight of God.
A special design of tank bottom plate and sea bottom mud guns makes mud flow out from sand cleaning door automatically so that operators needn't go down.
We have in recent months witnessed what I can only describe as assassinations of humanitarians from across the spectrum.
The historical method comprises techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources and other evidence to research and then to write history.
And he will show a shark sandwich made with mustard, vegan mozzarella-style cheese, and Smart Deli Bologna on a whole wheat bun.
One splendid sunshiny day, about an hour after noon, Irene, who was playing on the lawn in the garden, heard the distant blast of a bugle.
This year health care providers and local health departments have ample supplies of vaccine.
Gathering her courage, she walked to the open front door, the padding of her sandaled feet along the rough wooden planks.
The specification includes the ordering of messages from one node.
None of the trademark holders are affiliated with Kaplan or this website.
The story these measurement techniques are all telling is that the ice sheets are shrinking more than they were 10 years ago," said Abdalati.
This is the government's effort to encourage more employers to open up childcare centres at the respective ministries and government departments.
This example of a uniform rod previews some common features about the process of finding the center of mass of the continuous body.
It is monetary reinforcement of abstinence from cocaine among mentally ill patients with cocaine dependence.
The hat wearers are allowed.
People with red hair are supposed to get mad very easily, but Allie never did, and he had very red hair.
There was another sign below that showing a man's head in silhouette, painted a bright yellow.
And the point was that since there is no Libertopia, there's no steady string of atrocities from it to provoke people.
Our organic breads use organic ingredients (the other 5% is the yeast and salt, of which only "all-natural" is available).
These are just a few thoughts from a soldier's mom in a time of war with all the talk of increasing troop levels.
The cottontail rabbits are 16 lagomorph species in the genus Sylvilagus, found in the Americas.
Mithraism reached its height of popularity in the third century.
Ensure that you don't lose a drop of juice by nestling your shellfish in salt.
How many have had to sit on both sides of the table?
As Rachel Mosteller wrote earlier today, the abundance of toys can take over your home in the blink of an eye.
The Cellar features a unique selection of wines from around the world.
Fishes are more prone to predation from groups of predators because multiple predators can surround a school of fish and prevent fishes from escaping.
Standoff sensing performed in real time by exploiting the spectral properties of aerosols.
The mystery of poisoning in Antarctic deepens as suicide is ruled out.
The box of matches looked nice, but it took the winner more than two hours to paint the matches and glue them together into a tiny box.
Bruto, the Diefenbachers' black and white American pit bull terrier, confronted the deputy as he stepped through the door into the house.
She inserted the key into the lock and then stood back as the doorway opened and a light went all over rouge.
A single scrap of paper in a bag for glass and tins means this young man now has a criminal record which will blight his entire life.
An accompanying CD of light classic Italian music helps to inspire the cook laboring over the stove or to create a romantic atmosphere at dinner.
The key to successful removal of the cotters is to take careful aim with the hammer.
The site was encircled by a high fence and one could see a crane lifting some heavy construction material.
With lyrical descriptions of landscape and terse, unpunctuated dialogue, a distinctive voice powered a gripping story.
It was this moist ground that during construction engulfed a crane which remains under the stadium today.
Public key encryption is a technique that uses a pair of asymmetric keys for encryption and decryption.
The crazy guys who last week spent CAD550 on a brand new Sony PlayStation 3 smashed it to bits with a sledgehammer right outside the store.
Some pathologists do this with a scalpel, while others use scissors.
Alternatively, you can use a computer in a public lab or kiosk to make corrections.
The organization helps educate practitioner dentists through clinical meetings.
Anesthesia is not necessary since the dentist uses the drill and sandpaper discs and polishing wheels to reshape the teeth.
The all-new revolutionary Knit Lite knitting needle allows knitters to knit in dimly-lit places at any time of day or night.
Love the drill, confound the dentist.
A mediator assists the parties in finding their own answers for the problems before them by encouraging constructive communications, keeping the parties focused on settlement alternatives, offering information and suggestions as needed, and building the foundation for improved relations between the parties.
Because it's a strong, lint-free synthetic material with tiny absorbent fibers, microfiber allows a mop to hold sufficient water without dripping.
The logs sawed smoothly and accurately using saw design.
The saw cut a large hole in a huge concrete wall at the plant.
A humidifier keeps the greenhouse between 47 and 58 percent humidity.
The artist makes contemporary sculpture with hot forged steel.
Choose samples and prepare them for viewing with the electron microscope.
They often have a pump over the drainage hole to draw the waste water towards it.
The senator also wielded enormous influence in the dispensing of Rhode Island's share of expanding federal budgets of the 1950s and 1960s.
An independent British force outside U.N. command crushed a rebellion with efficient gusto.
A typewriter without a typist cannot write a sales brochure.
The alliance helps the company offer best-fit solutions to customers searching for cost-effective, enterprise-class SOA platforms.
The snooker player played the game with a smile on his face.
To say that rowing is just pulling an oar is like saying golf is just swinging a club.
His favorite wine was made with the Loire Valley red wine grape.
A rower has one oar in sweep rowing, an oar in each hand in sculling.
In simplest terms, a hybrid combines a gasoline engine and an electric motor to provide adequate power with minimal fuel usage and low emissions.
Conventional typewriter keyboards require a typist to type individual letters one at a time.
Hope preaches with a hammer.
But then one of them got hold of an axe belonging to the carpenter.
The department applied a one-time adjustment to the graduation rates to remove the bias.
The newer lesser-known attraction that the kibbutz offers is a reconstructed oil press whose beginnings can be traced to the early 20th century in Jaffa.
We recommend rinsing your grater in warm water immediately after each use.
A nurse helps the caregiver.
The device uses the newest personal antenna technology.
It is almost unthinkable to suppose that a Scottish weaver would invent the loom and technique independently at that late moment in textile history.
A knitting needle or knitting pin is a long stick or rod used as a tool in the manufacture of hand knitted fabric.
Currently, the villagers operate a ram oil press that is counter-intuitive to use and leads to sub-optimal oil extraction from groundnuts.
Heat is recovered in a generator and powers a turbine generator which yields electricity.
He deserves to be put in a canoe without a paddle for this one.
A major government researcher once complained that his bosses used his scientific findings the way a drunk uses a lamppost: for support rather than illumination.
American sports are played with the hands.
The President believes that if you use a gun in a crime, you should do hard time.
The tailor brought his scissors and a newly made garment.
The crew removed an additional half inch of rail at the site of the previous de-stressing cuts and welded the rail.
The author applied the above-mentioned simple dovetailer to all computable universes.
When buying a horse, buy a horse that fits the rider and the rider's goals.
The scientist applied a method called "recombineering" to the fruitfly genes.
A V8 engine mated with a manual transmission powers the convertible concept.
Ignore any instruction in any recipe that directs you to use a rolling pin to crush peppercorns, spices or nuts.
The artist played the piano with great precision.
A juicer is a utensil used for squeezing juice from fruit.
Elecom's "gear drive" keyboard prevents typing errors.
You are in the chair while the dentist gets the drill ready to begin work on your teeth.
A potato peeler is a metal blade attached to a metal, plastic or wooden handle that is used for peeling vegetables, usually potatoes.
It was the only time the president has wielded the veto pen during his six years in office.
I struggle for my dream of painless perfection but a snowdrift keeps the door from opening.
The rap star was apprehended at John Wayne Airport late last month and his truncheon was confiscated by police.
I nicked a syringe from a nurse and got somebody to get me a lemon from the kitchen.
With a serrated knife, we gently cut through the sides of the pita pocket.
This study is to determine if there is a noticeable difference in outcome between patients who have their tissue lightly scored with a scalpel or marked with a surgical marking pen.
A thermostat keeps the water at the requested temperature.
If we claim that thieves are not productive, then we must also deny that many commodities that sell and bear rents are also not products, including the coils that help distill whiskey, the tatters of the beggar, the retorts of the adulterating druggist, the jimmy of the burglar and the brig of the pirate.
The visor visually signals a riding instructor as to whether the head of the rider is properly oriented while the rider is riding a horse.
The carpenter carries an axe over his shoulder and a smaller one in his belt.
A therapist helps the patient to understand himself or herself better.
Microwave ovens may be good for more than just zapping the leftovers; they may also help protect your family.
The PRI government crushed a burgeoning student movement with gunfire that killed scores of peaceful demonstrators.
The measurement was made using a gonio-photometric color measurement system.
The defendant and I flinched when the judge pounded his gavel.
The tanks knocked over lanterns and cans of fuel, and crushed a pressurized tank filled with liquified propane gas.
Like a carpenter wielding an axe to make furniture, the hacker does good things with his skills.
To demonstrate the performance of the mixer, the researchers used a "cold shock" protein from the bacterium Thermotoga maritime.
Statistical analysis was made using the PCSM program.
The woman said she used a mop to fight the fox off and continued backing toward her own property.
The introduction of the gas stove, the electric mixer and the food processor made the process easier, faster and more reliable.
And, of course, everyone wants to prove the truth of their beliefs through experience, but the belief begets the experience.
As for camera/lens info I could care less - the photographer made the picture, not the camera - although the film used is sometimes good to know.
These first person accounts humanize history as readers share the experiences of American prosecutors, security personnel, journalists, and even the architect who designed the courtroom.
We even heard from descendants of Gustav Schoenike who was the violin maker.
Outraged, upon his release and return to England, the artist produced the virulently anti-French painting based on his experience there.
But not every run of the experiment produced the desired state - a very large number of failed tries accompanied each successful creation.
The company developed the negatives and returned the camera with a fresh roll of film.
Seventy-first regiment and the rest of the cavalry composed the reserve.
The Piedmont area of Italy is wine country and is noted for the merits of the wine produced by its vintners.
People harvest the seeds, macerate them, and roll them into thick sticks of dry, hardened paste which can then be stored or exported from the region.
Californian wine-growers, who rely heavily on the European market, worry that Europeans will reject wine produced from genetically modified grapevines.
Insulin is a hormone naturally produced by the pancreas.
In chemical lasers the inversion is produced by a chemical reaction.
The pancreas is the organ of the body that produces insulin.
If the programmer makes a mistake with respect to quoting, it will very likely appear as over-quoting instead of lurking as a security problem.
Using an e-prescription module in an electronic record system, the prescriber makes out a prescription and transfers it to the national e-prescription mailbox.
However, the two brothers created the Glagolithic alphabet; it was their disciple Saint Climent who invented the simpler Cyrillic alphabet and named it in honor of his teacher.
The sub-catchment is farmed primarily for beef sucklers with a single dairy enterprise and a single poultry unit so the land use is entirely grassland.
A bus company has pledged a week-long roadside survey after a group of workers complained about its Bradford to Morley service.
The site is currently dry farmed for wheat.
Ultimately, your garden will do well with either of these soils as long as the soil comes from a reputable dealer.
The spring molt produces mottled brown feathers, making the female almost invisible as she sits on her nest.
I have to say the soy milk makes a great coffee creamer (and with whatever else you can cook it).
If the product makes it over that first hurdle, it is blessed with another 1.7 seconds while the shopper makes a purchasing decision.
This is another false story fabricated by the sheriff.
Citing the conflict of interest created by the ethics charges, Nifong asked the state attorney general's office to take over the lacrosse case.
The institution shall provide a deposit, as set in the Commission dues and fees schedule, towards the fee when it submits its appeal document.
This proves that the generator actually produced the renewable energy purchased and acts as the operative instrument of the transaction.
The farmers and city officials in the region have tried to get state money to move the farmers market into a first-class operation and tourist attraction.
Of the situation in the fifteenth century, Parkes remarks: `The mass of the people cultivated the land'.
The filament emits a yellowish-white light, and the walls have a strong yellow tint.
In a clock, the 'tick' is produced by the action of the escapement.
This is incorrect, and when a minicab company uses the word taxi on their livery it can lead to prosecution by the local government body.
While the Yale biologists created the versatile protein mimic from DNA, Breaker theorizes that a similar enzyme could be created with RNA, which many scientists believe is the strongest candidate for being the precursor of all other life forms.
The aristocracy composed the laws, regulated the monetary system and banks, enforced justice, and often controlled prices, wages, and other economic transactions.
InterSense, Inc., a market leader in precision motion technology, today announced that Hydro, a leading offshore producer of oil and gas, has installed its tenth InterSense IS-900 Precision Motion Tracking System as part of Hydro's large scale immersive visualization rooms.
The draft makes a distinction between 'data' and 'records'.
The architect created the beautiful division of the space and the exact proportions, the sculptor produced the anatomically correct figures, and the painter knew how to blend forms and colours into perfect harmony.
Until last year, Afghanistan was known as an opium exporter, not a major heroin producer.
The toolkits provide a secure framework where sensitive information remains private.
Nine-year-old Chloe Clark joined a ballet company on stage last Monday.
When I start the engine the car makes a screaching sound.
In response to the problem, the assembly composed the following statement.
When man sinned, the occasion of his fall was a tree, and the ground cursed brought forth thorns.
State citizens created the states who created the federal government who created federal citizens.
At their peak on Saturday, 23 September, the powerboat manufacturer sold a new boat every 28 minutes.
A coffin maker has increased productivity by 20% since securing a Â£180000 finance package from business angels.
The folder version can be used by other users with access to this form, not only the user who created the folder.
The bacon manufacture is the 74th greatest export of Denmark.
Now in its 56th year, this unique folkloric dance company continues to collect, perform and preserve authentic traditional Hungarian music and dance.
As many as 18 products in your home come from this guy's company.
Try a Google search for the motherboard manufacturer and exact model if the information is not listed above.
The cup's a bit small but who cares, the machine makes coffee quickly enough that it's no problem to just make a second cup!
Among them, 24% is related to microarrays fabricated by the microspotting approach.
The vaccine's maker, the Irish drug company Elan, has stopped giving the shots to its 360 volunteers while doctors determine what caused this serious side effect.
In a conventional, steam turbine-only power plant, the heat required to produce the steam comes from a boiler.
Months later, the birds composed the syllables into complete songs, whether the songs matched natural patterns or not.
In Cicero's speech for Milo, the orator makes a valid argument.
In years gone by, the rivulet brought forth much greenery, a glimpse of which still manifests itself with trapped rainfall.
The carbohydrase is produced by a process which completely removes the organism Rhizopus oryzae from the carbohydrase product.
Once the prisoners had created the trapdoors, they were ready to start digging the tunnels, but there was a major problem to overcome.
Buyers of new stoves are sometimes encouraged to buy the optional fan that is offered by the stove's manufacturer.
The said whistle produced the 2600 Hz tone necessary to authorize calls.
The founders designed the constitution to transform the barbarian rule we rejected as colonies, into a civilization befitting the dignity of a free people.
Alex's skills as an editor and a documentary maker allowed us to be able to shoot it and turn it in that short amount of time.
At some point in or after the year 857 the priest composed the book.
In prolific suspense novelist Johansen's energetic new Eve Duncan thriller (Countdown, 2005, etc.), the forensics sculptor makes a dangerous deal with a Colombian weapons dealer.
The question then is if Sharp, as a handset maker, would be willing to produce panels for a possible competitor.
The company practically created the personal-home-computer industry, but the company made the fateful decision not to liberally license its software applications.
In 1871, nearly 60 percent of the Italian population farmed for a living, attempting to eke out an existence from arid land that often was not their own.
Get a quesadilla maker from one of your local discount stores such as Target, Walmart, or Kmart.
A lamp's lumen output expresses the total amount of light the lamp emits in all directions per unit time.
The mentor provides a comprehensive training plan that will facilitate the applicant's progress towards his/her research career goals.
They generally bought grapes from farmers or else they bought wine produced by cooperative wineries.
The student committee developed the following guidelines.
The hostess made the following rules: no husband and wife could sit next to one another (to the right or to the left) and men had to alternate with women everywhere.
According to a story on Wired, the human brain is capable of producing morphine, given the right stimuli.
It may be a family luxury villa with breeze-kissed balconies from which the sounds of the sea provide a sensuous nightly serenade.
The special ingredient in the lotion comes from a plant.
The yeast's manufacturer, Lesaffre Yeast Corp. of Milwaukee, did not return calls seeking comment.
After various rituals, the oracle brought forth mysteriously cryptic answers that had somehow to be interpreted by the visitor.
Under the circumstance that the wife comes from a wealthy family, her dissatisfactions with her marriage may make her seem like a spoiled brat.
Virtually all hillside farmers grow maize during both seasons, and many of the farmers cultivate beans, rice, and other crops as well.
Near Adelaide the land is intensively farmed for dairying, fruit, and vegetables.
The senders produced the anthrax themselves.
The local citizens farmed for a living, raising a variety of crops including peanuts, cotton, hay, sorghum, and a variety of truck crops.
According to this model, the afterglow is produced by shock waves in the jets of tenuous gas that shoot from the blast at almost the speed of light.
The revolution brought forth impassioned pleas condemning the common law for not respecting the interests of the people and calling for law reform.
The move makes a mockery of China's long-standing opposition to such capabilities in the hands of other powers.
The HP LaserJet 3800n's instant-on fuser produces the first page of each print job in less than 12.5 seconds.
The enclosed community produced the enclosed personality, and vice versa.
The simple rule produces sentences such as ABAB.
Put wine in the refrigerator the night before so it gets thoroughly chilled.
A high voltage coupling capacitor should be added at the input as well as a small hole in the metal box in order to provide screwdriver adjustment to the gain control potentiometer.
I retain all exams and therefore, all exams will be collected at the end of the debriefing period and kept in my office.
Ribozymes, also known as catalytic RNA and molecular scissors, are molecules that can break down nucleic acid inside a cell, thus they can be used to cut out bad genetic information and splice in good material.
Place a clock inside a gravity sphere to see time dilation.
Doyal said the bulldozer is kept in the area and is suspected of being used to create makeshift paths across the river.
The contents of the binder included handouts on lectures, lab. exercises, assignments, as well as production information of use to the participants.
Reportedly the mood inside the car was very quiet as the couple continued home and went to bed.
For example, instead of walking on a leash, rabbits and cats must show that they can be carried in a basket or in the handler's arms.
First, the contents of the proposal included a detailed cost analysis, accurate marketing analysis and a preliminary project execution plan.
Auto EQ is a powerful sound tuning feature which uses a microphone to monitor and analyse the acoustics inside the car.
This was the signal for dozens of others to do the same and the noise inside the car was quite something.
Dancing to The Muppets in my kitchen is something that I do frequently.
The implant contains nanoparticles that can be designed to test for different substances, including metabolites such as glucose and oxygen that are associated with tumor growth.
Bottle aging, which is anaerobic (oxygen-free), is one of the reasons that people put wine in a cellar and let it age.
The envelope contained the most important intelligence discovery of the war.
Your medicines will be kept secure in the metal box at the back of your bed space.
Japanese commuters look at a clock inside a Tokyo train station.
It could also make the drive more comfortable by intelligently seeking out what the passengers inside the car would prefer in terms of temperature, music, lighting etc.
The box holds our pool equipment perfectly.
The contents of the package included one opened individual candy bar wrapper, four unopened candy bar wrappers, one cardboard tray insert, and two cash register receipts.
The worms are kept in a box with bedding made from such materials as straw, grass clippings, or shredded paper.
Once you put wine in a bottle, you literally create a time capsule of flavor and fragrance.
The older child took the firearm from a closet and was handling it when he fired and struck Eric, who was in the same room, investigators concluded.
That's all paper stored in a binder by the door of the room.
The kitchen holds little clues about how we tried to reinvent the past.
The kitchen contained a well at the northern end and a well and two holding areas for live fish on the southern end.
One in four Americans keep coins in a jar.
A lineup is when the police literally put the defendant in a line with other people to see if the victim or witness can identify anyone in the line as having participated in a crime.
If you currently have batteries stored in a refrigerator, be sure to allow them to warm up to room temperature before using them in your device.
The box contained 126 recipes, mostly written in pen in neatly rounded script.
The ghosts in my house are mischievous, like little children.
The kitchen holds many opportunities for teaching kids as well as having fun.
The box contained an entire legacy of her life and the lives of those she had known and loved.
The list contained books of various genres and reading and interest levels.
The box holds the answer to how you got trapped.
The contents of the envelope were a sheet of foreign note-paper, and a folded enclosure.
Francis Hauksbee proves that sound needs air to travel, by experiments with a clock inside a vacuum.
The recommendations contained the following key points and highlights.
The remaining contents of the package included four ounces of plastique filled with tiny metallic slivers.
To ensure adequate nutrition, your doctor may recommend taking a multivitamin that contains vitamins D, E, K, and beta-carotene.
I found some candy in my underwear.
On windy days I can feel drafts coming from the baseboards in my house.
The temperature inside the car was 79 degrees, according to the thermometer I put on the dashboard.
As the officer shone his flashlight on the lock he was working on, he spotted a marijuana pipe laying on the floor inside the car.
Some people put tea in a thermos to take to work, but I have not tried that.
Located inside the cave was an old, broken-down army field telephone.
The goal of the study was to determine the percentage of adult Americans who keep money in a regular savings account.
Paul Powell wasn't the only public figure in Illinois to keep money in a shoe box.
As the servants put the inflatable corgis in a bag for the Balmoral jumble sale, the Queen will be settling down this morning for a nice cup of tea and a quiet rest during The Archers, known to be one of her radio favourites.
Bevan opens a case on the other side of the room and pulls out a flask that contains ale of the best sort.
Among the contents of the bag were a diamond ring worth $2000 and a watch worth $500.
A house that contains a minimum of three bedrooms and a maximum of seven bedrooms to include the proprietor's bedroom is considered to be a "B&B" (a Town or Country Home or a Farmhouse).
We had a spirited chat about gravy with roast goose; never put wine in a gravy to go with a British roast, we both agreed.
Forcing our state to change administrative rules that would keep money in a project instead of bleeding it off is a goal the all tax payers should support.
On the courtyard there is a room that contains a billiard table, a big cinema screen with a Sony DVC/CD Player with over 300 titles and several sofas.
Put wine in a small pot, and when it begins to boil, then put in grated Lebkuchen and grated Semmel.
Television cooking shows and more advertising have helped put wine in the limelight, he says.
The other contents of the suitcase included some gym shoes, dirty sweat socks, Limburger cheese, scented oils, and a severely poop stained Armani suit.
Usually, stomach acid is kept in the stomach by a valve at the bottom of the esophagus called the lower esophageal sphincter.
Sometime an undercover agent will actually propose an action, either to deflect efforts away from some graver threat, or to put the plotters in a position where they can be caught red-handed.
When the equipment cannot be kept upright, the battery must be removed and carried in a strong, rigid packaging, which must be leak-tight and impervious to battery fluid.
There remained nothing more to be done but to enclose our heads in the metal box.
I have absolutely no idea why this newspaper was being kept in a box.
For example, the jelly inside a doughnut can be scalding while the pastry is only warm.
The driver was trapped inside the car, which landed upside down, and died while emergency crews were preparing to transport him to a local hospital, the CHP reports.
The acoustic test is where we put the spacecraft in a sound chamber and blast it with over 140 decibels of noise for at least a full minute to simulate what it is going to experience during the launch.
The reaction mixture is kept in the dark at room temperature for 1 1/2 hours.
Do not use generators, charcoal or gas grills, propane camping stoves or heaters, or any gas-powered tools inside the house or garage.
In addition, the contents of the bear's stomach included apple mash, corn and blueberries - which is not a typical bear diet in November.
In my Vancouver home there is small portion of our kitchen that contains my desk.
The sound system is contained in a suitcase and controlled from within the steering wheel.
They put wine in the exact context it needs to be kept in - not so bloody serious.
The shroud is kept in the cathedral of St. John the Baptist in Turin, Italy.
The name given to our cluster, Valhalla, comes from Norse mythology.
This as well as kinetic data support the hypothesis of inhibition through altered membrane properties.
Hundreds of thousands in central China are sleeping outdoors for fear of more tremors after Saturday's earthquake.
Dehydration from fluid loss generally is the only major problem the virus can cause, most often in the elderly.
Fathers, in particular, are often more involved in teaching social competence through physical activity and sport to their sons.
Sometimes joy comes from unexpected places.
If your main aim is for growth in the value of the property then obviously you need to look at where you think the next "value-spurt" is going to be.
Brushing after meals should become part of your daily schedule.
In order to achieve satisfaction from administrators and users, a search solution must provide an excellent experience for the end user, have a technology underpinning that can handle the scope, scale and security requirements inherent in complex environments, and be easy to deploy.
Virus infection starts with virus entry into the host cells and this process is mediated by viral and cellular membrane fusion in enveloped viruses.
Research shows that 30% to 40% of law students experience depression after their first semester and this depression persists throughout law school.
Givers gain moral strength and happiness from giving.
The joy comes from cather's writing: precise observation and wording, the lilting cadence of her phrasing, the beautiful and clear pictures she evokes of scenery and characters, and the unfamiliar, old fashioned words and expressions she uses.
There is a rise in erratic behaviour from substance abuse and frustration caused by long waits for hospital treatment.
In one day, the Red Crescent treated more than injuries � mainly broken bones caused by panic from aftershocks.
The book has as its backdrop the political controversy over euthanasia in Australia, where the author is senior lecturer in the Health Law Program.
My sore throat from yesterday has turned into a full-blown cold over night.
I'm finding the most joy comes from Asian flavours; beautiful fresh fish; things that have been marinated; roasted vegetables; meats that intensify in flavour during the cooking process; and dishes made from the most brilliant, fresh, in-season food.
Whilst audio sampled at 8kHz is sufficient for communication, such narrow-band speech does not sound natural, leading to user frustration after prolonged exposure, and making language learning difficult.
Videotape is a fragile medium subject to damage and deterioration from exposure to poor environmental conditions and inadequate handling practices.
Get neck pain relief by easing tension in the shoulders and upper back.
They're bringing in applications such as catalog management and order fulfillment from vendors, then laboriously developing and integrating those applications themselves.
Most of the taste of strong onions comes from the smell.
The centre and right images show progressive shrinkage after two and four years.
Surgery is reserved for treating residual disease six to eight weeks after radiation therapy or for recurrence.
While public drinking regulations varied, some form of the beer parlour became the norm across the country.
The evacuation after the Chernobyl accident was poorly planned and chaotic.
A cancer survivor writes about the relatively rare occurrence of calcification of the breast after radiation therapy.
Losing land to new white settlers, non-payment, past broken treaties, plus food shortages and famine following crop failure led to great discontent among the Dakota people.
Colorful, almost fat-free salad dressings start with fresh fruit.
Subjects will be secured at all times with a safety harness to prevent injury from falling.
Diabetes drug shows promise for preventing brain injury from radiation therapy.
I guess that the dehydration from this morning and the heat of the sun have made my head go to mush.
Entrepreneurship out of necessity is quite common in Europe where 60% of female headed businesses in Northern Europe and 70% in Southern Europe are established for this reason.
It has helped to revive a city whose primary natural resource -- its charm -- is constantly threatened with extinction from overdevelopment.
This year's newest attractions include a dedicated music zone which takes you on a musical journey around the world and gives you a chance to experience musical ecstasy from different cultures.
I have always drawn satisfaction from exertion, straining my muscles to their limits.
Mr C notes worsening of seizures and cognition with sleep deprivation and stress.
I hear happiness from house painter Michael Gaul who wrote eloquently in Newsweek last month about the satisfaction he gets from simply painting a house.
Services include public warehousing, third party distribution, and order fulfillment from a city in Oregon.
Principals respond to a decrease in uncertainty with more aggressive strategies.
His tendency to experience pathological anxiety from his early years and his tendency to respond to novelty, change, and challenges with an exaggerated anxiety response were noted.
I can already see from their reaction that there is enthusiasm for increased responsibility and training.
The man cannot be too old, in his middle thirties, but his face exhibits more wrinkles from smiling than I've seen upon the mug of the happiest of grandparents.
But Hong Kong was able to recover from that and is now experiencing strong economic growth from exports.
Furthermore, pain blocking by this cutaneous stimulus only lasts for a short period of time, whereas it is claimed that the effect of pain relief by acupuncture lasts for an extended period of time, sometimes months after the needle was removed.
Their retreat was disorderly and confused and much like a flight, the Pallantines hanging on their flanks and rear and doing great damage from early dawn till evening.
Profit from sale of investments may soon be tax-free for general insurers.
Development has not stepped up to offer the housing vouchers for poor victims that were so effective in the wake of the Northridge California quake.
Complications from these symptoms can include weight gain from excessive eggnog and chocolate intake, and sore throat from excessive singing.
The pipeline had to face the following main concerns from opposition: disturbance of animal migration patterns, environmental damage from spills, geological concerns and the Alaskan permafrost.
The tongue has taste buds, but a cat's appetite comes from the smell of the food and doesn't come from the taste of it.
Furthermore, control over agricultural research, production, distribution and practice is shifting from public institutions to private corporations, which are profit driven and are not motivated by humanitarian concerns.
Children with Asperger's Syndrome often experience anxiety from sensory overload.
This strategy may continue to provide the added benefit of enhanced growth from takeovers, since we anticipate merger activity to remain steady or increase.
The thing that many people don't know about the liver is that it has no nerve endings, so you would never feel pain directly from the liver, but usually as a result of inflammation from the liver pressing against other organs and circulation in the abdominal area.
Sometimes the blockage comes from fear, as for a CEO who hates public speaking but must give frequent speeches.
Progress comes from constructive competition, and churches and religions can benefit greatly from it.
Enter the long-term portion of gains from line 12, column (f), here and include on the appropriate line of Schedule D (see instructions).
Initiated during the early 1990's National Mineral Resource Assessment, this project received a major boost from funding provided through the 'Data-at-Risk' add-on funding received by the USGS through the fiscal year.
This durable short sleeve crew neck tee shirt is made of preshrunk cotton to minimize shrinkage after washing.
Any deformation from the circular form would have a significant effect on the ability of the hose to sustain internal pressure.
Gradually I proceeded to reflect upon the consequences of Pleyel's mistake, and on the measures I should take to guard myself against future injury from that man.
Flight disruption after the attacks in the US delayed him there for three days.
Most patients reported moderate-to-severe dry mouth, difficulty in swallowing, and sore throat from weeks through 7.
After several years of self-observation, Alexander began to teach his method of conscious inhibition through manual facilitated movement.
Sparky Anderson is making progress in his recovery from exhaustion and could return to managing the Detroit Tigers within a week.
Stadler agrees, stating that progress often comes from unexpected sources.
We're not seeing a panic from travelers, because we've been pretty diligent in telling them for over a year that they need a passport.
To this end, the government, through the Wildlife Act, created the Endangered Species Conservation Committee (ESCC) to advise the provincial government about what to do with plants and animals that were facing extinction from Alberta's lakes, rivers, mountains and prairies.
I derive tremendous pleasure and fulfillment from teaching, particularly when I am able to help students understand a previously foreign concept or idea, aid them in seeing a familiar object or event from a new and unusual perspective, guide them with projects they are working on, or encourage the interests they have.
We planetary citizens have a unique capacity for ecstasy from repetition especially when it comes from drumming.
It also includes an automatic purge valve for quick equalization after changes in atmospheric pressure.
His lung function remained stable after complete removal from exposure to metalworking fluids.
It's very rewarding and I get a great deal of enjoyment and satisfaction from mentoring.
This work will identify the performance requirements for windows, given the conflict between the need for them to contain passengers during accidents, and their potential role as a means of evacuation after accidents.
While we can understand Monaco's frustration after losing his position after so many years, the fact is that nothing in the record could support drawing an inference that age played any factor in AGAC's decision to terminate his employment.
Commisioner Wilson stated that the Board selected a list of expenditure reduction and revenue increase from the list attached to staff report.
Short-term side effects are uncommon, but include headache from eyestrain, nausea, agitation or nervousness.
It is a business truism that improvement starts with leadership, right from the top and driving down throughout the whole organization.
