
Guardian sport and agencies

Sat 20 Oct 2018 22.32 BST


Last modified on Sat 20 Oct 2018 22.51 BST

Lionel Messi will miss next week’s clásico against Real Madrid with a fracture in his right arm, Barcelona have announced.Messi was injured when he fell awkwardly in the first half of Saturday’s 4-2 win over Sevilla, and the Argentinian now faces three weeks out.Barcelona said on Twitter: “Tests carried out on the first team player Leo Messi have confirmed that he has a fracture of the radial bone in his right arm. He will be out for approximately three weeks. FuerzaLeo.”❗ [INJURY NEWS] Tests carried out on the first team player Leo Messi have confirmed that he has a fracture of the radial bone in his right arm. He will be out for approximately three weeks. #FuerzaLeo pic.twitter.com/kpNcspnfqoBarcelona ended a four-match winless run in La Liga by beating their title rivals Sevilla to reclaim top spot. Philippe Coutinho put Barça ahead by curling a first-time shot into the top corner in the second minute and Messi doubled the lead 10 minutes later with a thumping strike into the far corner. Messi was then was forced off with his right arm in a bandage following a challenge from Franco Vazquez.Luis Suárez stretched Barcelona’s lead by converting a penalty in the 63rd minute after he was brought down by Tomas Vaclik in the Sevilla goal. Pablo Sarabia pulled a goal back for the visitors, only for the former Sevilla midfielder Ivan Rakitic to score Barca’s fourth with a rasping drive. The Sevilla substitute Luis Muriel made it 4-2 in stoppage time.Barcelona lead La Liga with 18 points, one clear of Alavés, who won 1-0 at Celta Vigo on Friday, and two ahead of third-placed Sevilla. Atletico Madrid are fourth after they drew 1-1 at Villarreal, while Real Madrid are back in fifth with their problems deepening after a 2-1 defeat at home to Levante.Three weeks on the sidelines would see Messi miss six matches, starting with Wednesday’s Champions League game against Internazionale. After Sunday’s clásico, Messi also stands to miss a Copa del Rey match against Cultural Leonesa, the return leg against Inter and La Liga contests with Rayo Vallecano and Real Betis leading up to the next international break.