The US, Canada and Jamaica qualified for next summer’s World Cup, and it is the Americans who look the strongest team
Caitlin Murray in Frisco, Texas

Thu 18 Oct 2018 12.08 BST


Last modified on Thu 18 Oct 2018 14.35 BST

The US women are officially the champions of Concacaf after beating rival Canada 2-0 in the final of the region’s World Cup qualification tournament. Jamaica earned their first-ever Women’s World Cup place with a nailbiting penalty shoot-out win over Panama in the third-place playoff.Both the US and Canada had already punched their tickets to the 2019 Women’s World Cup in France, but Wednesday’s final offered bragging rights in a heated rivalry and a good test to gauge each team’s form as they now look ahead to World Cup next summer.This tournament hadn’t exactly been a difficult one for either team, but there are some key takeaways, both from Wednesday’s final and the entire tournament.The Americans had talked about how much they were looking forward to facing Canada in the final and finally face a strong opponent in the Concacaf Women’s Championship – and indeed, Wednesday’s match was a much tighter affair. But the Americans still comfortably dominated, combining and moving the ball through Canada’s lines.Although the Canadians rolled through the rest of the tournament, the concern may be that they hit a wall when they finally met the US, a competitor closer to their level. The Canadians seemed to lack the swagger and we-can-beat-anyone confidence that became a hallmark under previous coach John Herdman, who left to lead the Canadian men’s team in January.Instead, the Canadian women clung to their usual physical style of play to disrupt the tempo. Four Canadians earned yellow cards for chippy fouls and arguably the referee could have punished the Canadians further for some of their challenges.Curiously, when Canada coach Kenneth Heiner-Moller was asked after the loss how Canada could close the gap with the US, he insisted that a gap didn’t exist, even though the last time Canada beat the Americans was in 2001. “I don’t think there is a gap,” he said. “This was a match – nothing more than that – and we lost it due to a few things. So, no gap.”Wednesday’s match may have not felt particularly close, but the USA-Canada rivalry, it appears, is alive and well.The Americans looked utterly dominant through the Concacaf Women’s Championship. It wasn’t just because many of their opponents were bad (although their opponents were mostly bad) – the US were playing with a panache that they haven’t had in quite a while. But getting to this point – hitting such a cohesive and impressive run of form – was the result of nearly two years of experiments from coach Jill Ellis that, at times, appeared to be unraveling the team. Now, it appears those experiments have paid off.This week, striker Alex Morgan was asked how the Americans had achieved such good chemistry and ball movement since their last loss in July 2017, a low point for the team. Morgan said they’ve drilled down with video sessions, meetings and a level of purposeful preparation that wasn’t around during that experimental phase, which included losses to Australia, France and England. “It’s not as much playing fun 5v5 small-sided games without any roles,” Morgan said. “There’s always a thought behind every single drill, passing pattern, game we play and training. As foreign as that was to us a year or two ago, that’s just what we’re used to now and you can see that translating on the field.”In short: the flip was switched and, with a spot at the 2019 Women’s World Cup on the line, there was no more messing around. That was very apparent in a splendid performance against Canada on Wednesday that secured a trophy for the US.But now there’s another eight months until the Americans go to France and try to defend their world title. Will Ellis pick up some of the tinkering and experiments she cast aside in the lead-up to the qualification tournament? The Guardian asked Ellis exactly that, and she said the team now just needs to continue to test itself in competitive games.“I like the things we’re doing – we just need to get better at them,” Ellis said. “The depth is there and it’s about continuing to evolve our game. Tonight could be a game where you pass your way into the game or defend your way back into the game when the ebb and flow comes. Those are moments for us as a team to learn that sometimes it’s about being organized defensively and generating transition moments and sometimes it’s about having confidence to play our way back in.”In other words, the team needs more games to learn how to navigate various scenarios. Though the USA’s upcoming calendar has not been announced, it will likely be a rigorous schedule featuring global heavy hitters and fewer of the types of minnows the Americans encountered over this Concacaf tournament.Up until this tournament started, it wasn’t really clear what Jill Ellis’ first-choice lineup would look like. Part of that was due to her roster experimentation, and part of that was due to injuries that left US rosters feeling like a revolving door.One of those players who was a question mark was Rose Lavelle, the 23-year-old who had been out with a hamstring injury for nearly a year. Before her injury, she had brought something unique and different to the US team – an unpredictable playmaking spark from the middle of the field – but the question was whether the newcomer could fit into a US squad full of depth and talent.On Wednesday night, it took Lavelle less than two minutes to score with a splendid strike from outside the box. Lavelle had featured as part of the go-to lineup Ellis started in four out of five matches during this tournament. “She gives us some really special qualities and she’s very well integrated with the players - they adore her - and her quality helps us in how we want to play,” Ellis said this week. “She finds pockets of space so well and her ability to face up, her final pass - she has a lot of tools.”Her dynamism and technical ability on the ball has been the key to a midfield combination that has been the heartbeat of the American attack: Julie Ertz as a defensive enforcer, Lindsey Horan running box to box, and Lavelle as the playmaker who unlocks defenses with her dribbling and pinpoint passes.When those players combine, the ultimate beneficiary has been striker Alex Morgan, who now has 24 goals in 24 games and was awarded the Golden Boot for the Concacaf qualifying tournament. There are always mistakes when it comes to match officiating - after all, referees are only human. But the refereeing during Wednesday’s final was particularly poor. Potential red cards were waved off, corner kicks were called as goal kicks and, most glaringly, Alex Morgan was offside by several steps on her goal.Those dodgy calls will only up the ante for whether Fifa decides to use video assistant referees at the 2019 World Cup as they did so seamlessly at the men’s tournament this past summer.When Fifa was asked in September whether it had made a decision on including VAR at the 2019 Women’s World Cup, it issued a short, non-committal statement: “This will be communicated in due course.”Meanwhile, the timeline to implement VAR and the training it requires continues to narrow.